APP directory is the most important directory
-http
-models
this 2 are the common sub folder will use in App directory

CONFIG directory dont need to change anything

DATABASE directory -> migrations sub-folder is where you create database
DATABASE directory -> seeders sub-folder contains classes use for unit testing for the database

PUBLIC directory dont need to change anything

RESOURCES directory- where you can put the css, js and views where is the html file that use blade template

ROUTES directory- all routes that will make
-web.php  where you can register web routes for your application

STORAGE directory dont need to change anything it contains cache



"UserController" is the name of the controller that you will make
and it needs to be camelcase

BASIC CONTROLLER
command:
  php artisan make:controller ControllerName

RESOURCE CONTROLLER
command:
  php artisan make:controller ControllerName --resource


CREATE TABLE IN DATABASE
command: 
  php artisan make:migration create_students_table

after creating a column in VSCODE
command:
  php artisan migrate 


ONE LINER command
create controller and create model
command:
  php artisan make:controller ControllerName --resource --model=modelname

TO DECLARE VARIABLE
{{variable}}

REQUEST
command: 
  php artisan make:request FileName



STEPS ON CREATING LARAVEL
1. Create laravel app thru laragon(quickapp) or composer

2. Setup Database Credentials in .env file

(3 and 4 can be done vice versa)
3. Create table using migration (command: php artisan make:migration create_tablename_table)

4. Open the migration file that created and add a necessary collumn since the default is id and timstamp only, and AFTER creating a column write this command to create the database (command: php artisan migrate)

5. Setup controller(command: php artisan make:controller ControllerName --resource) or create controller and model (command: php artisan make:controller ControllerName --resource --model=modelname)

6. Check the model file that has been created and check the protected $fillable variable. Located in app folder under models sub-folder

7.Create resource route in web.php under the routes folder.

8. Setup the views on the resources folder under the views folder. (Views are the template)

//OPTIONAL if you dont have development serve
9. php artisan serve


If the function is within the class its called "METHOD"

TO USE THE class
classname::methodname